hello and welcome everyone to this
week's Stella developer meeting  today
week's Stella developer meeting today
I have Christen from open sein here and
he's going to give a quick
introduction to to open sein and the
collaboration we've  we've been having
collaboration we've we've been having
for for a while and just have a quick
checkin in on where where we are on on
things with getting Stella on open sein
so welcome
Christian nice question nice to meet you
yeah  so it's great to be here  I
yeah so it's great to be here I
I'll give I think I can give more a bit
of introduction about open zapping and
for the people that might have missed it
our partnership the work that we're
going to do with with Stellar if that's
that's okay yeah that sounds good that's
great  yeah I mean for the one that
great yeah I mean for the one that
missed it  open zein  signed
missed it open zein signed
basically a partnership with Stellar
that is going to be two years long and
the goal is to improve the developer
experience on on Stellar why why is that
the reason is that open zeppin  is of
the reason is that open zeppin is of
course known for being a security
blockchain company we are like one of
the top auditing firm for security
services but  we built we built that
services but we built we built that
based on our solidity contracts Library
so to give you the reference our
solidity contract Library as basically
processed over 20 trillion in total
value transferred it now secured over
150 billion in total value lock
processing over three billion of
transaction 250 million active wallet
use use opens app in contract like
that's huge adoption of course  to
that's huge adoption of course to
give like a percentage like 35% of
evm blockchain transaction are processed
for open Zing contracts and it's like a
of course a big number that tells for
how simple how safe  and how good is
how simple how safe and how good is
for developers to build on top open
zling contracts so the goal of of the
partnership of with seller is to bring
that  easy of building and  that
that easy of building and that
nice developer experience to to the
Stellar ecosystem we believe a lot in in
in the Stellar ecosystem and we want to
grieve Stellar
developers and Stellar develop
a great experience to build
application better and and easier so
over this year we're going we're
basically going to develop a full soran
contract Library  bringing many of the
contract Library bringing many of the
flagship cont that we have on the on the
solity library so like erc20 that is
like fible token  RC71 that are like
like fible token RC71 that are like
nonf fungible token  volt the volt
nonf fungible token volt the volt
standard and many others that are
tailor it to the to the Stellar
ecosystem and on top of that we're also
going to build open source developer
tooling that is going to help a lot
developers to automate a lot of  a lot
developers to automate a lot of a lot
of tasks  one of those tools is Rel
of tasks one of those tools is Rel
layers that allow for like gasless meta
transaction  and it works together
transaction and it works together
with monitors that we're also going to
bring on Stellar so basically you might
want to set some specific condition on
your contract  and what you want
your contract and what you want
transaction of course to run
automatically based on the parameters
you you set you will be able to do that
very soon  also stellar and that's I
very soon also stellar and that's I
think  great and in general yeah we'll
think great and in general yeah we'll
work on improving developer experience
based on feedback by by the community
that's a bit on the general overview of
what we're going to build over the next
two years it's going to be a long
partnership yeah it's great I I love
that it's it's going to make it easier
for developers to to add tokenization or
add payments and also the secure part of
it the audit part of it I think is is is
a very it's a very appealing option for
developers yes yes exactly
so  yeah exactly the goal is to is to
so yeah exactly the goal is to is to
bring  the more the more tools that
bring the more the more tools that
can help really developers to to to
build  in an easy and of course
build in an easy and of course
Safe Way and actually I mean it's  we
Safe Way and actually I mean it's we
we did very recently the first release
of the of the
library  we actually released the
library we actually released the
fible token standard  along with some
fible token standard along with some
extension that allow the allow for token
to  have extension like minable
to have extension like minable
burnable posable  and a couple of
burnable posable and a couple of
other things  it's just of course a
other things it's just of course a
first simple release but  it's  it's
first simple release but it's it's
already being used and that's that's
amazing  and actually part of this in
amazing and actually part of this in
as part of this release  we also added
as part of this release we also added
Stellar to the open Zeppelin wizard
which is a smart contract interactive
generator that I can share right now I
guess right yep I actually have an
opportunity to play with the the Wizard
a little bit and I must say this this
makes it so much easier there's a lot of
there's a lot of thoughts put into
building this it's very obvious and it
makes it very easy and productive for
developers yeah yeah exactly we this is
basically the wizard interface we have
many many users over  over the over
many many users over over the over
10,000 users using our solidity wizard
that you can see as many standard that
you can take as a reference of how the
Stellar wizard might look like but yeah
we did the first release and the great
thing of the wizard is that you can
go to wizard. openpr.com stellar and
it's completely free like you don't need
to create an account or anything you
just go on the application and you can
basically get your fible  token
basically get your fible token
Stellar contract in in seconds I'm not a
developer disclaimer I'm not a developer
I Le marketing at open zpp by the way I
didn't introduce myself  but  it's
didn't introduce myself but it's
actually also for me very simple to use
like  for instance like you just set
like for instance like you just set
the name of the token I'm going to call
it like Christan
token give it a
sybol and you can see like the
automatically parameters are changing in
the contract you can give a a premi
amount of token this is the amount
initial amount of Supply that he gives
to the  token deployer address set
to the token deployer address set
like  10,000 token and you can see
like 10,000 token and you can see
it's  appearing here on the wizard
it's appearing here on the wizard
already with the decimals that it needs
to have and then you can set also like
some features the first one they do
basically what you see on the screen so
the first one is minable and it gives
basically  right to the the the token
basically right to the the the token
deployer to create more Supply at a
certain point and if I click on it
you're going to see that it's atlet add
the code that he needs to
add  another feature that is barnable
add another feature that is barnable
and on this one the token deployer
address is able to bar destroy some
token  at at will and  the last one
token at at will and the last one
which I think is very  useful also
which I think is very useful also
outside of token is posable that gives
the token deployer address the right to
exactly own the contract  and it's
exactly own the contract and it's
gonna basically input all the parameters
that you need  you need to deploy the
that you need you need to deploy the
contract in here and I think POS is very
interesting  it's a very interesting
interesting it's a very interesting
extension not just for token but in
general for smart contracts that  I
general for smart contracts that I
think one one of the main things like I
I've been in the blockchain industry
for some time and  like one of the
for some time and like one of the
core things of blockchain is always that
we always we always spe is like
immutability which is a great thing on
one side but on the other side we know
that developing application is a custom
process and  sometime  you're going
process and sometime you're going
to need you know to have that function
that allow you know to oppose a contract
for security reason  we work with many
for security reason we work with many
ds like compound scroll and others and
is a is a very important extension in
case of  security security events so
case of security security events so
that's an important one and finally yeah
you have the license  by default open
you have the license by default open
Zepp license are under MIT  it's just
Zepp license are under MIT it's just
a note but anyway like you can select
like your parameters and the the final
thing you can just copy the contract and
put it in your seller  CLE or yeah you
put it in your seller CLE or yeah you
can also download it and do whatever you
need it but  that's a bit the overview
need it but that's a bit the overview
for for
Wizard great yeah and when you talk all
these features you just see that it just
adds  the the functions to to to the
adds the the functions to to to the
code it's really
easy yeah exactly I mean it's great as I
told you like I'm I'm not a developer
but  I'm able to create a contract
but I'm able to create a contract
a contract myself so exactly that's
great you just toggle the button and
exactly is going to change parameters
it's going to import what he needs to
import  and adding  other function
import and adding other function
here at the end
so that's  that's exactly the thing
so that's that's exactly the thing
and  I think that James bakini also
and I think that James bakini also
did a video  did a video for for the
did a video did a video for for the
wizard that  both open zein and build
wizard that both open zein and build
Stellar POS on  X or
Stellar POS on X or
Twitter  you can check more on that is
Twitter you can check more on that is
actually put bring the wizard into into
action and he really is able to deploy a
contract  on Stellar blockchain in
contract on Stellar blockchain in
five minutes with the Wizard and I think
that's a great thing right what I said
at the beginning the goal of partnership
is to make development on Stellar easy
fast and safe and Wier is a great tool
that now developers and Stellar can can
use great yeah I can see  I see James
use great yeah I can see I see James
link to  to James video and I'll
link to to James video and I'll
recommend everyone to go watch it it's
it's it's it's really it's really a neat
neat video and project so you mentioned
a little bit about Tooling in the
beginning  what kind of tooling  are
beginning what kind of tooling are
you providing and what kind of  what
you providing and what kind of what
what do I get if if if I sign up for for
for open
sein yes yeah Ian the cool thing is you
you let's say you don't need to sign up
in terms of open the app  we have the
in terms of open the app we have the
tag line somewhere open up in equal open
source  we are committing to more and
source we are committing to more and
more to open source development  and
more to open source development and
we mainly do that through through two
ways first one is contact libraries and
again like every everything we release
is you know on GitHub is public and we
also encourage like we we encourage a
lot of community feedback to improve
our contract and that's one side right
you can take just open uping contract
Import in  in the protocol that you
Import in in the protocol that you
need and you can build on top of that
and it's it's already great  in terms
and it's it's already great in terms
of tooling we are building on top of
Defender  that's an application that
Defender that's an application that
we built with a lot of development
operation tooling I mentioned before a
couple that are Rel layers and monitors
but we will actually bring  many more
but we will actually bring many more
so yeah I I can give the round down
that is the first one is called Cod
Spector U that is basically used
to  quickly analyze a a code base that
to quickly analyze a a code base that
you can input into the tool to  to
you can input into the tool to to
basically give you back some known
issues  it's like a a mini audit
issues it's like a a mini audit
you're not getting the audit but you're
getting you know the round down of the
main  unknown issues that your Cod
main unknown issues that your Cod
might have so that's already a a great
addition  to check for you know non
addition to check for you know non
non issue  another one ex I mentioned
non issue another one ex I mentioned
Rel layers is very important like to
the automation process of transaction
and to working together with monitors
that you can set up really on any any
parameters or condition that you want is
is great so you basically can create
workflows right for your protocol
that are very interesting so to give
more like practical examples like you
might want  for instance  you you
might want for instance you you
let's say  you know defi application
let's say you know defi application
can check on specific transaction that
on a liquidity pool for instance if you
see some suspicious transaction you
might be able to like post the market or
you know CH change some parameters that
you want to change or something like
that or for instance another application
that  maybe when  maybe when
that maybe when maybe when
users like sign up into the application
you want to send some  you know a
you want to send some you know a
little bit of token to let them you let
users play into your app because it
requires some token you can do that
through Rel layers and monitor so that's
very powerful for building developer
automations we're also going to build
some other tools like  deploy that is
some other tools like deploy that is
like basically a  a tool that will
like basically a a tool that will
help a lot with like actually deploying
deploying smart contracts and making
that actually safe safe and  easy
that actually safe safe and easy
especially when you know sometimes when
deploying like new protocol version
actually new protocol from scratch you
have a lot of contracts to deploy all at
the same time and these tools come
handy and we're also gonna build
basically a tool that is I think for for
the first time we're building this to
exactly for cell that is  the test
exactly for cell that is the test
Tool  we still have to Define with
Tool we still have to Define with
together with the community what that
actually will look like but the goal is
to  bring a lot of more testing
to bring a lot of more testing
feature for sound contracts and make
sure  you know you can developers can
sure you know you can developers can
easily test  test early smart contct
easily test test early smart contct
before actually putting into into
production that's a bit of the overview
but as I told before like  this is
but as I told before like this is
just the starting point two years is a
long time in blockchain to build a lot
and we really welcome developer
developer seller Community feedback to
let us know  what they think what
let us know what they think what
they need and we'll definitely work with
them to to make the best developer
experience possible on
Stellar great thank you I don't know if
you have anything else otherwise we
could maybe see if there's a couple of
questions yeah no that's it  let's see
questions yeah no that's it let's see
if we have some questions but yeah
that's it let's go
through I can see there's a lot of
excitement about open integration  in
excitement about open integration in
the
comments I I see I see see one question
it's about if the partnership
includes Upstream things to Sor B
itself I do not know
that  unfortunately I don't have to
that unfortunately I don't have to
answer  I I don't know I don't know
answer I I don't know I don't know
either  I would need to check with the
either I would need to check with the
team
but yeah I'm sorry I don't have
the answer for that yeah no it's it's
it's early on it's it's like you said
it's a two-year project so we we just we
just scr ing the surface right now and
and yeah I'm I'm super excited about
this about what what can come out of
this this partnership and and and what
it means for for developers I think it
definitely offers some some some ways
for developers who may not have
extensive experience in in working with
with tokens or or payments it's an easy
way to integrate it  so yeah thank you
way to integrate it so yeah thank you
if  if we
if if we
don't I see I see some question about
nft that's exactly non fungible token
are next on the list
to  to be your list  to B very soon
to to be your list to B very soon
very loose very soon and of course like
actually something that I probably
didn't stress is stress enough before
actually you know putting every release
into production phase we have a too
internal audit opens up is again one of
the top  auditing firm we have audited
the top auditing firm we have audited
really so many of the
leading  blockchain protocols like
leading blockchain protocols like
unop before  1 inch compound Mor for
unop before 1 inch compound Mor for
very any of the top protocol you can
think of in  in blockchain  opens up
think of in in blockchain opens up
I've audited many of those guys  so
I've audited many of those guys so
that comes you know with a lot of of
security yeah nft is next on the list
upgradeable contact are
also   coming
also coming
soon okay great
let me
see I don't know if you have anything
about there's a question from Matias
about the USC 6900 I don't know if you
have any any thoughts about
that  I don't to be honest  I think
that I don't to be honest I think
I mean what we can do is also what we
shared before we can have another
developer me
and  we can have like actually the
and we can have like actually the
developers from open Zepp that are
building the library at the tools that
can give more insights
into into the tech that we're going to
build yeah I think we should do we
should do  we should do some followup
should do we should do some followup
follow-up meetings because as as
as everything develops I think it could
be interesting to get get some of of
your engineers on board and maybe do
some do some examples of how to how to
use the the open S integration so so
yeah I'm I'm  looking forward to see
yeah I'm I'm looking forward to see
what's coming up and  I'm happy to to
what's coming up and I'm happy to to
to do another session later so yeah
exactly exactly I see last question
about like U from t  like if the the
about like U from t like if the the
parcl like audit for seller funded
project  we are also bringing like
project we are also bringing like
audit  to Stellar  but I you can
audit to Stellar but I you can
check with like the Stellar Foundation
that it's up to the Stellar
Foundation if you know do such a program
but we're also bringing like auditing
services to to Stellar if that's  the
question okay and then there's one
about point of view on classic SL soron
[Music]
bridging I see I see I I don't have an
opinion to be honest on yeah it seems it
seems to be maybe a little bit out
outside the scope of what's yeah yeah
yeah plan for a little bit but yeah it's
nice to to be honest many interesting
questions and  I can tell from the
questions and I can tell from the
marketing side I've been  seeing a lot
marketing side I've been seeing a lot
of excitement from the Stellar community
and that's like great  we work again
and that's like great we work again
with many other  successful chains and
with many other successful chains and
and protocols  and the Stellar
and protocols and the Stellar
committee is one that is really
something that you notice you know
when you do stuff so that's amazing
I'm really excited again for the
partnership and having another session
of this involving our developers
answering more technical question I'm
sorry
but  I can't go any deeper than that
but I can't go any deeper than that
no no and that was not that was not the
plan for for this this is more like an
introduction to the the partnership that
we have and a little bit of an  look
we have and a little bit of an look
into what's what's coming up and and
what's already there so so  so yeah we
what's already there so so so yeah we
will do a more technical session at a at
a later time but thank you so much
question for for joining here today I I
think this is super interesting this is
a good it's it's a good addition to our
tool belt  for the developers so so
tool belt for the developers so so
yeah thank you for joining and thank you
everyone else for for joining today and
for all the questions so see you next
week thank you thank you very much Caron
and thank you to everyone all these
amazing question and the people you see
you next
time right